# 1 The Universal Truth of Humankind

## There is one truth of humankind that transcends time and space. 

From the beginning of human history, there always were certain truths to human behavior and perception. That is a certainty due to humans having patterns, much like all things in the universe. And by looking at the breadth and different periods of human history, the universal truths can be discerned from all the regional and temporal differences. Thus, the universal human truth may be revealed.

And it is the case today, with our unparalleled ability to peer into the past and every culture across the world, that we may construct the most accurate version of this universal truth. So it is today all variant expressions may be unified under one general formulation that is intuitive to all.

## The blind men and the elephant

Several blind men approach an elephant. Each of them touch a part of it, and try to describe it, to figure out what it is. "It is stout like a tree!", said the man pushing its legs. "No, this thing is hard like a spear!", shouted the one gripping its tusks. "No, it is clearly like a fan!", cried the man touching its ear. And likewise, the trunk was a snake, the body a wall, and the tail a feather. And they then kept arguing, convinced that they were right and that everyone else had to be misguided.

## safhefqfewfew

//the truth is not based on the "popularity" of a practice. Rather the presence of a practice is a pointer. And for example the absence of it could point to it everywhere else being a regional thing caused by the environment, as opposed to intrinsic to humans. This is for example with ideas like "logic", and humans being "rational", which were only the case in the West, and only briefly in some other parts of the world.

//and what better information to use for the ideas good to communicate than these pointers? they are very relatable