2 The human struggle is to overcome mortality. All human efforts are to overcome mortality, first death, and then suffering. #also that our fates are shared? #saying it is a struggle between sapience/order and chaos isn’t wrong either, since we effectively want to make stability by making a complicated system, rather than a having a flat equilibrium happen
	{Humans were lost until they found comfort in forces of providence. While evidence for the true forces would be scant, their practical effects on humans could not be denied. And so to deny the existence of Providence would be to crush human hope.}
	{So what was the common truth? Oh, they all found meaning (immortality) in Providence, family, and/or progress. And they differ in which one they focus on. Most focus on the familial, some focus on the spiritual to reach Providence, while the fewest believe in worldly progress they can affect.}
	{A son went and asked who Providence was. The shaman said it was the ancestor spirits. The mystic said it was a force that resonated in everything. The preacher said it was a god in heaven. The medicine-man said it would be the strongest spirit. And the priest said it was a series of gods. The son left confused, and went to his father. His father said Providence is whatever keeps one resolute.}
	{How can there be one truth if there are many correct variants of it? That is because none of them are entirely correct, by being abstractions of the same fundament. That fundament, they never knew of by more than intuition, and is the one truth.}
	{One time, some humans decided there was no one truth.}
	{The truth is not always popular. A goat wandered into a barren plot grazed by a flock of sheep. The goat approached one of the sheep, and asked why the plot was barren. The conversation was picked up by other sheep, who thought the goat said he had eaten the plot barren. Then, this news spread throughout the flock, and the flock approached the goat and sheep talking. They asked the goat why he had eaten the plot barren. The goat was confused, and asked the previous taking sheep what this was about, only for that one to turn against him as well. And so, the flock drove the goat away, and hoped that would make the grass regrow.}
	{The truth is only practical. A man once proclaimed he had solved all questions there were. Providence heard of this, and visited him. Providence then gave him his eye. The man saw through it, and was blown away by the indescribable things he saw. Up to now, he had only sat behind the fires in a cave seeing shadows. He could not comprehend what he saw. Instead, he now knew that he knew nothing. And so the search for the truth had always to be for utility in the end, as it is not human to know the unabridged truth.}
	{The boy asked: "If the human goal is to conquer mortality, then why are we endowed with misleading emotions?". His father replied: "The mind must work through emotions, and it is the job of your sapience to find which balance of them is correct. They are not goals in-and-of-themselves, and those who mistake them as such will only find themselves broken on a treadmill.". He continued: "They were made to guide you towards the human goal, but only when followed with sapient thought. So do not pursue pleasure for its own sake, and happiness will come to you. Do not rave over grievances, and you will have the clarity to solve them. Do not cry longer than three months, and you will have the wit to end the story well. And be temperate with the rest as well, and the human goal naturally comes to you.".}