3 The struggle is fought and expressed differently depending on where and when. qwgwq #all of them were intuitively ascertained, versus this which is written here, based on “””scoince”””. Hence, this is the “seal of prophets” #notably, almost none could express it without providence
#funny thing how god is always nice, since no one could stomach an evil god hence it is not incorrect to simply call god “providence”
	{There was a warm wetland infested with disease. There, each others' touch would infect one another, and prompt death, whether from worms, men, or beasts. Through the lense of that air, the world was disgusting. They separated society into different groups to avoid contamination, and would cultivate spiritual pursuits far away from the contaminated soils. Their goal was to escape from the physical world through this cultivation, reaching salvation. This was their perspective. And would remain so until disease is no more.}
	{There was a serene woodland divided by mountains and waters. When one got sick there, it was rarely for long. When the winters came, the snow would soon melt. And when war came, the knights would clank their metals, and soon head home. The world appeared forgiving, and so they saw Providence that way too. They could therefore explore new horizons, knowing they would be forgiven if there was nothing there. They would come to find salvation was to be brought by their own hands.}
	{There was a sea of sands with oases far inbetween. The everyday was but a long trek from oasis to oasis, and so the spirit's journey to salvation must be too. On the way, one would be sparing and careful of food, ready to protect one's livestock, be wary of degeneration, and have faith there will be respite at the end of the wandering. So if one followed life like a journey through the desert, one would reach salvation. That would remain so until the desert is conquered.}
	{There was a turbulent land under heaven. With cooperation, one could control the land for immense prosperity. And without, the land would be one's bane. Thus, all households gathered together, and conformed to specific codes of conduct to create cohesion. This cohesion had to be led from the top, the heavens, and was given to a man on the earth. As such, prosperity was only when the heavens graced them, and people had to intermittently shake society to regain heaven's favor. The certainty of salvation was thus reflected in worldly affect. That would last until the land is conquered, and heaven brought down to earth.}
	{A scholar from the west had just learnt the truth. He went eastwards to teach it. There, he saw the easterlings were deluded by absurd fictions, and was unable to spread his truth. When he was leaving he complained about it to a local elder. The elder asked him: "Why should we relearn what we have already known for ten thousand years?". The scholar then pondered how such deluded expressions could present the same truth, and concluded that the one billion easterlings were simply all stupid. From which he gathered his blood must be the difference. Much to the dismay of the ancestor that had taught both.}
	{#there is no objective truth, and we should just do the opposite of nazism instead, is wrong
	{A mystic entered the town and preached: “You …”. A young man then asked: “But how can that be? I live not with more care than for myself…”. The mystic replied: “You live not up to the ideal form of man. And neither does every follower of Providence live up to expectations.”. He continued: “The ideal is the mold our society should try to fit…}

