book/1 The Human Reality/3.md, before:

# 3 The Variations

## wqwqkfpowqfpo

qwgwq #all of them were intuitively ascertained, versus this which is written here, based on “””scoince”””. Hence, this is the “seal of prophets” #notably, almost none could express it without providence
#funny thing how god is always nice, since no one could stomach an evil god hence it is not incorrect to simply call god “providence”

## The Pestilant Tropics

There was a warm wetland infested with disease. There, each others' touch would infect one another, and prompt death, whether from worms, men, or beasts. Through the lense of that air, the world was disgusting. They separated society into different groups to avoid contamination, and would cultivate spiritual pursuits far away from the contaminated soils. Their goal was to escape from the physical world through this cultivation, reaching salvation. This was their perspective. And would remain so until disease is no more.

## The Temperate Woodlands

There was a serene woodland divided by mountains and waters. When one got sick there, it was rarely for long. When the winters came, the snow would soon melt. And when war came, the knights would clank their metals, and soon head home. The world appeared forgiving, and so they saw Providence that way too. They could therefore explore new horizons, knowing they would be forgiven if there was nothing there. They would come to find salvation was to be brought by their own hands.

## The Desert

There was a sea of sands with oases far inbetween. The everyday was but a long trek from oasis to oasis, and so the spirit's journey to salvation must be too. On the way, one would be sparing and careful of food, ready to protect one's livestock, be wary of degeneration, and have faith there will be respite at the end of the wandering. So if one followed life like a journey through the desert, one would reach salvation. That would remain so until the desert is conquered.

## The Land Under Heaven

There was a turbulent land under heaven. With cooperation, one could control the land for immense prosperity. And without, the land would be one's bane. Thus, all households gathered together, and conformed to specific codes of conduct to create cohesion. This cohesion had to be led from the top, the heavens, and was given to a man on the earth. As such, prosperity was only when the heavens graced them, and people had to intermittently shake society to regain heaven's favor. The certainty of salvation was thus reflected in worldly affect. That would last until the land is conquered, and heaven brought down to earth.

## The Arrogant Scholar

A scholar from the west had just learnt the truth. He went eastwards to teach it. There, he saw the easterlings were deluded by absurd fictions, and he was unable to spread his truth. When he was leaving, he complained about it to a local elder. The elder asked him: "Why should we relearn what we have already known for ten thousand years?". The scholar then pondered how such deluded expressions could present the same truth, and concluded that the one billion easterlings were simply all stupid. From which he gathered his blood must be the difference. Much to the dismay of the ancestor that had taught both.

Commit message:

modified:   .gitignore 	modified:   book/1 The Human Reality/1.md 	modified:   book/1 The Human Reality/2.md 	modified:   book/1 The Human Reality/3.md 	modified:   book/1 The Human Reality/4.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/1.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/2.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/3.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/5.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/6.md 	modified:   book/3 The Human Tradition/1.md 	modified:   book/3 The Human Tradition/2.md 	modified:   book/4 Human Individuals/1.md 	modified:   book/5 Human Bonds/1.md 	modified:   book/5 Human Bonds/2.md 	modified:   book/6 Human Societies/1.md 	modified:   book/7 Human Salvation/1.md 	modified:   book/formalities.md 	modified:   book/intro.md 	new file:   book/overview.md 	new file:   notes.txt 	deleted:    textbin.txt 	deleted:    trash.txt

book/1 The Human Reality/3.md, after:

# 3 The Human Perspective

## sadfwqiwjfia

about how human epistemology is necessarily from a human perspective and so on

also one that explains how reality works (from a human perspective) (via brahman and yahweh making reality or something funny like that)

## Perception of shadows from a fire

//How can there be one truth if there are many correct variants of it? That is because none of them are entirely correct, by being abstractions of the same fundament. That fundament, they never knew of by more than intuition, and is the one truth.
//we may not perceive the truth directly, and must abstract it, so of course the regional variations of the truth are not the same

## Symbolic Tales

What happened in the past? What happened far away? Like a human can recall from days past with lower clarity for each, and like each envoy who passes a tale will muddle it, so does human society. What happened in the past far away, may therefore not be known precisely. And as such, a tale's value is in the lesson it teaches, unlike veracity to an account.

One test of value, is the test of breadth and time. Where if it continues over a vast area, over a long time, it is more likely to be an aid than a detriment. //we'd want to connect this to law of stability / natural selection / w/e
