book/2 The Human Story/1.md, before:

1 Callous nature. In the universe, there was nature and dust. From the dust, nature made a landscape. And in that landscape, nature made life, among it, the animals. The animals were mortal; prone to suffering and dying. Nature was not forgiving, so most of their kinds would regularly go extinct. Whether due to a whim or an inbuilt flaw. And nature remained indifferent.
{Sometimes, a creature was favored over others, but never for long. First, came the plants. They had clear skies to feed on. But they were made to breathe frost, and could do nothing to stop it. They blotted the skies with snow, strangling themselves to death, along with most other life. Then came the fish. There was much food in the water, and they prospered. But one day, on a whim, the volcanoes erupted, blotting the skies with smoke and souring the waters, strangling them to death, along with most other life. Then came the reptiles. The land was opened for them. But on another whim, a giant rock impacted the earth, blotting the skies with ash, strangling them to death, along with most other life. Then came the mammals.}
{What happened in the past? Like a human can recall from days past with lower clarity for each, so does human society. What happened in the past may therefore not be known in much detail beyond what we can infer. That is why the tales we tell are not truly of specifics or individuals, but of lessons and humanity's whole.}

Commit message:

modified:   book/1 The Human Reality/4.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/1.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/2.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/3.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/4.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/5.md 	modified:   book/2 The Human Story/6.md

book/2 The Human Story/1.md, after:

# 1 Callous Nature

## Nature is as much a friend as an enemy.

In the universe, there was nature and dust. From the dust, nature made a landscape. And in that landscape, nature made life, among it, the animals. The animals were mortal; prone to suffering and dying. Nature was not forgiving, so most of their kinds would regularly go extinct. Whether due to a whim or an inbuilt flaw. And nature remained indifferent.

## Nature's favor

Sometimes, a creature was favored over others, but never for long. First, came the plants. They had clear skies to feed on. But they were made to breathe frost, and could do nothing to stop it. They blotted the skies with snow, strangling themselves to death, along with most other life. Then came the fish. There was much food in the water, and they prospered. But one day, on a whim, the volcanoes erupted, blotting the skies with smoke and souring the waters, strangling them to death, along with most other life. Then came the reptiles. The land was opened for them. But on another whim, a giant rock impacted the earth, blotting the skies with ash, strangling them to death, along with most other life. Then came the mammals.
