# 2 The Spark of Mind

## What set humans apart from everything else.

One mammal distinguished themselves, the humans. Like the others, was their capacity to feel, spot, move, and strike. Though their capacities for which were poor in comparison. Rather, their specialty rested in their heads, and was their spark of mind. With which, they could question and assemble patterns of what they knew, allowing them to gather wisdom to make conscious decisions. It granted them the freedom to understand reality. This fundamental difference, which was the ability to utilize wisdom, "sapience", gave them the name "homo sapiens". With this ability, humans established themselves as the fiercest of all animals, and spread throughout the world.

## Fall From The Treetops

In the forest paradise, were the progenitors. They lived there among other apes, in the treetops away from the saurians. These peaceful days lasted until there were more apes than trees, and a fight broke out to occupy the forest. There, the progenitors, as the runts of the litter, could not outmaneuver or wrestle against the other apes. They lost, and were banished from the forest. From there on, they had to wander the savannah.

## Slaying The Dragon

The progenitors roamed the savannah in fear of the saurians. One day, they heard the saurians approaching. But they found nowhere to hide. Instead, they found a bulb. The bulb promised they would become masters of the world, should they be willing to curse their blood with eternal suffering. In choosing between suffering and death, they promptly bit it. Out came a smoke, which roused their minds with insight. With this heightened awareness, they now saw the potential of the sharp stones, branches, and grassy fibers around them. They fashioned them into spears and traps, which they used to slay the saurians. Then on the saurians' corpses, they stood as the new apex predators of the world. All owing to this greater awareness, above any other animal. Thence, the progenitors proclaimed themselves the "the wise ones", becoming the humans.