# 3 The Mortal Plight

## A trouble begun.

But humans came to understand too much, and questioned their lives. They learned they would suffer and ultimately die, going extinct to the whims of nature, with no more purpose than any inanimate object. They had discovered the mortal plight and their meaningless existence. But not much could be done about it with their weak fleshy bodies. Which is why humans could only ensure the survival of the next generations, and not much else. And so for the next generations, humans walked the earth with more symbolic efforts than worldly endeavors.

## Paradise Lost

With the wisdom of the bulb, the humans returned to the forest, and found the apes who had banished them now bowing. The humans wanted to reclaim their old paradise. But when they tried to climb the trees, they found their tails were missing. And when they lied down on the tree bark, their backs were scratched, as their fur was missing. And they had to cover themselves with leaves, as they could no longer bear exposure. And they now understood the consequences of their actions, they could now tell good from bad. And they craved stuffs and imagination over people. And no matter how hard they closed their eyes, their anxieties would not cease, for their minds had changed. They had become something different, and could no longer return.

## Consolatory Prayers

When the humans thirsted, they could but offer a prayer for good rains. The rains were beyond their control, but their anxieties were still racing. And so they consoled themselves by negotiating with the weather spirits.

## Symbolic Immortality

A son once sought to become immortal, and so asked the predecessor spirits how they had done it. The sage said he had bound his soul to the wisdom he gave. And that so long as it remains, he will never die. The warrior said he had become immortal by slaying a monster, and so long as his tale remains, he will never die. And the mystic said not to worry about it, for your deeds, no matter scale, will bring you endless life in death. The son was puzzled, and so went to his father and asked how to become immortal. His father presented him with a ring, and told him to give it to the woman he loves if he wants to become immortal.

## Powers for Naught

Before nature and the dust in the universe, there was nothing a human would know. All a human could know, is their own existence. Not what was before, nor what will be after. Nothing in the physical world could spell much for it. Such that humanity's greatest fear, was what they could control the least. Humans found no option but to rest their faith in supernatural Providence, a force to solve every worry beyond their world. So to hope in Providence became a basic necessity to stave off the fear and despair of what would come, regardless of whether there was one.