# 5 Realization of The Future

## Our destiny awaits.

Humans had not yet realized what they had done, and thought of their new ways as curses they could not get rid of. But they eventually came to understand that they were not truly voluntary transgressions, but inevitabilities of human curiosity and eagerness. And that their salvation would come the day they attain the power to overcome nature. Or else, nature would one day, by one too many whims, rid itself of them. Thenceforth, humanity understood they were to use their new ways to solve the mortal plight and conquer nature. This was the beginning of the human will for worldly change, the realization of progress.

## Succumbing to Delusion

This would not always be without hiccups. Following periods of wisdom, the truth would be established. But those aware of the truth would succumb to time, and those after would be complacent, and only grasp it in parts. And so it would go from thoughts of fate to intentions alone, logic to dogma, humility to popularity, collective to loyalty, truth to feelings, strife to convenience, and so on. The focus would shift from the truths of human existence, to the whims of the imperfect human nature. Yet, no matter how deluded one could get, the world remains, and comes around to remind one of it.

## Conquering The Elements

The humans thirsted once more, but the weather spirits did not respond. The first time, they dug into the ground and found a well of water. The second time, they built dams on the rivers. The third time, they melted the glaciers. And the fourth time, they drank the oceans with the salt left behind. And when they would master the elements fully, they would no longer need the spirits.

## The Zoo

There was one period when humans lost sight to temptations. Their desire to feel the better, drove them to fence the old apes into what they called a "zoo", and laugh at them. One day, a father and a boy visited. The boy asked if the animals disliked being fenced in. To which the father replied, arguing that the apes' lack of sapience made them only care for their base needs, and as such lived happy lives if those were provided for. The boy then became afraid they would fence him in too if he did not utilize his sapience. And perhaps that did happen, as in that time of degeneracy, when they got out of the enclosure, they never left the zoo.

## Forth is The Only Path

Providence instructed humans to keep stepping forwards. Providence spoke: "There is nothing but your shared fate. And that walks with you. There is nothing behind you.". The ones who looked back turned into pillars of salt.

## The Stars Await

//we peered through the clouds and saw the cosmos