# 6 The Final Crossroads

## The last stretch is upon us.

So the day humans gain the power to outdo nature in shaping reality, progress would reach its end. Though while humans would have all the means, their imperfect natures still reign within them; To tempt them to misuse these untold powers to the point of self-destruction, rather than solve the mortal plight. Thus, humanity now stands at the end of their road, at a crossroads, where they must reaffirm their only strength and distinction from nature, their sapience, to wrest their shared fate towards the only path they can tread. It is the struggle to cover the last stretch, the final chapter of humanity's story. Hopefully one of sapience and perseverance.

## The Rod of God

Building on the myth of fire, our heroes reached the final frontier. There, they saw what the future held for us, what nature truly held in wait: That lest we transcend nature, nature would transcend us. And so, the heroes brought back with them the rod of God. Now, will we become gods or ash?

## The Hall of Ancestors

In our hallowed hall, stand the hundred billion predecessors. Gazing from the heavens, they bear witness to us today. Remembering their toil and sacrifice, they watch in anticipation. And repeating their wishes, we see their warmth, burning on the torch of progress. They urge us to keep stepping forward, and bring about the end to the generational strife.

## Coming of The Messiah

Foretold since times immemorial, was the end, when the black shroud would return. The dark clouds would blot the sun, people would go astray, and doomsday would approach. Then, from the sky, would shine a light, unto us, lighting our candles. From there, the light would spread onwards, until the world is enlightened. This light would clear the skies, from whence the kingdom of heaven would come. That light is upon us today.