3 The rule of history. (or just "human fallibility", if being less abstract) #the only thing you can learn from history, is that no one learns from it #the only exception to history we hold is our technological scenario, so unless we emphasize it unless we want history to repeat itself
	{Some humans once set out on a ship to reach the island of immortality. Eventually, the captain of the ship died, so the remainder of the crew were left to steer the boat. They could not decide who the next captain would be, and fought among themselves until all candidates to the wheel were dead. Then, the remainders would keep squabbling, creating disputes over petty reasons, causing trouble over emotional troubles, all while neglecting the course of the vessel. Anyone who tried to steer the boat would be deemed too pretentious, and thrown overboard. This continued until the ship had unwittingly turned around, and they found themselves washed up to the shore they started from.}
	{One time, scholars from the west visited eastwards. The scholars had read all ancient texts of the easterlings there, and had been impressed by the texts' wisdom. The scholars asked about concepts the easterlings had invented, but the easterlings did not recognize anything.}
	{Many kingdoms fought in a war with artillery. From it, they learnt war with
	{#decadence
	{One day, humans decided to build a tower to ascend to the heavens. It began well, and the tower was scaling up. But this endeavor took very long, and the tower got wider as it got taller. Eventually, people no longer knew who were where on the tower, and they began to diverge. When a man from one side of the tower met another to plan the placement of the next layer, they found their dialects had become unintelligible to each other, neither did all of them remember the purpose of the tower. In this confusion, bricks were misplaced, and people began hitting each other over accusations of sabotage, and even actual sabotage could have taken place. No one knew what was happening anymore, and the tower collapsed. They should have done it faster than decoherence would set in, but that was not yet possible.}


#theseus ship? consciousness?




4 Human timeline. Human history was different phases of struggle against mortality. And only with advancements in technology did these phases change. Which will one day end 
#"progress" could not be discerned thousands of years ago, but it very clearly can be now. It is in truth, pseudo-linear, since it builds up, and could potentially fail and reset, but it will one day make it.
	{First, people had pointy sticks, sharp rocks, and fire. Giving rise to  spirit -isms. Then, they got seeds, dykes, and chariots. Giving rise to clerical -isms. After that, they could mass-produce metal weapons, coins, and saddles. Giving rise to popular clerical -isms. And then they got explosives, industry, . Giving rise to the early human -isms. And now, they have the power to shape reality. That will give rise to the final human -ism. #idk…
	{One day, a man was contacted by Providence. He was told that in time and with the correct actions, the original fault of eating the wisdom-fruit would be solved. That man knew not exactly what Providence wanted him to do, but tried nonetheless. After him, multiple others had to be contacted too, to get closer to the truth of Providence. Though none of them had the perspective we have today, and could not have known actions could be physical more than merely symbolic. The foretold doomsday when all will be solved comes soon, and by our own hands.}
	{"I care not for myself nor humanity!", a young man proclaimed. "Very well.", an elder replied. The elder continued: "While you may not care, humanity will keep caring tomorrow. Only if humanity ceased to care for itself would humanity cease. The same applies for you.".}




5 Our exception to history. #referring to tech and the crossroads, being that by explaining our existential situation, we could potentially use the fervor gained from it to be the needed exception
	{In history, every group with power would eventually use the power to entrench themselves, and when safe, devolve into degeneracy. Luckily, the timeframe we are working with would put this too far away from being able to take form.}




#need to include about attempting a reset being a bad option?






#every doctrine applies to all stages of everything?






-.
.
#there are no intrinsic human rights, only endeavors and decencies?
1 Right action stems from right thought. Without the correct intentions and understanding of reality, humans will act against salvation, and bring us towards doom. #the crossroads anchors us to an objective truth, even moreso than the rest of reality
#every part here should lead with an explanation for why it is most logical for this to be here, and how everything in total here covers all of human behavior
#right thought is sapience
	{Providence observed a flock of sheep. When one sheep smelt something funny, it would go look. And a few more sheep would look in turn, to which all the others soon would. Then it happened that a smell was off a cliff. So then the flock went towards it until the ledge was packed, pushing the sheep off. Soon, the flock was a lot smaller. "If only they were sapient…", Providence thought. Then Providence stopped squinting, and saw those sheep only sprouted fluff from their heads.}
	{Providence observed a pig. The pig wandered through the forest and found truffles to eat. And when it felt its stomach bulging, the pig lied down to sleep. Though it happened those bulges would not go away, and the pig would get bigger each time. It would eat more and more of the forest. First the delicious truffles, then the tasty berries, then the bland shrubs, then the hard bark, and alas, there was only dirt to eat. Afterwards, the pig began starving. But did it not realize this would happen? Why would it not eat in moderation? Was it merely a slave to its stomach? Providence dared not look any closer.}
2 Towards the greatest good. #there is no moral debate. There is only the struggle to minimize mortality across all spacetime. Where it is permissible to do evil for the greater good. The only issue is whether it would actually be effective or not. So there are only technical debates.
	{There was once a woman who wanted to help people. She versed in medicine, and used it to treat ill people. This came well into use for the army in war. But in the time she could treat a single person, two more would have succumbed to their injuries. It seemed the best medicine would be preventative. Should she then stick to her role, or embark to end all wars to help the most people? Providence answered: "In the timelines I can envision where you are best suited to both, I can tell you: In the formers, you provide a small passive good, while in the latter, you either provide a massive good, or a lesson on what is possible. Though, in this life, like most, you have not grown up to make such an endeavor, so stick to your role.".}
	{Providence spoke: "All that may be awake or dreaming, is truly alive. All that is alive, may suffer and die. And…". Then humans could no longer comprehend Providence. Instead, they had to finish with: "And no more live minds shall be created after humans, and when the others have faded away in peace, the universe will be an open playground for humanity.".}
	{One day, an excavator found the ancient remains of a human-like species. He dated them to be long bygone. "Phew!", the excavator exclaimed; "Luckily we don't have to settle any moral questions about that today.".}
3 Human bodies are our faulty conduit.  Right understanding is in truth, but humans cannot know it fully. Instead, they may only infer approximations from their senses and reasoning. Thus, we must do our best to act in accordance to the truth without losing sight from our fallible selves. #vital is: do not mistake your tools as religion, whether emotions, materials, policies, etc. the only true religion is humanism #humans should not act above nature (and likewise outside of the traditions) without very great certainty they will succeed, or if they have to. sapience isn't nearly as strong as we'd like to believe, but is still all we have beyond our heritage (though some sap is still needed to utilize the heritage, but not nearly as much as making new stuff/decisions)
	{One day, some humans got arrogant. They thought their rationality alone could guide them, and that the torch handed by the predecessors only held them back, and so forsook it. Then, when they could not see in the dark, they burnt a branch off an oleander tree instead. The fumes hurt for no gain, but they insisted it was for the better. Then, after a hundred million were "martyred" under its guidance, the branch had burnt up. However, those further away had breathed in some of the smog, and it clouded their mind. So rather than learning from that unforeseen brutal lesson, they now considered forsaking the torch too.}
	{humans are poor at representing the truth, so think yourself rather than merely listen
4 They hold the human heritage. #keep abstract principles, know your "tools" versus your "religion" #as opposed to caring about individual convenience #as an extension of being humble, e.g. "truth" #though only when the remaining majority of your local group agrees to, or else it is mostly pointless. though give a story of why some diversity is still good here #free speech, purity, hygiene, etc. (we need something to base what these are on)
	{The refugees wept, for everything there was, had fallen to the ravages of time. Their city was razed to the ground. Their families were all dead. Too were their heirlooms destroyed. There were only a few people left, and all they held were their stories.}
	{The lands in the east dried up, but those in the west still had water. The western people sowed twice that year for the easterners to eat. So that the easterners would sow twice when the west would dry. Though the westerners almost mixed up their prayers to Providence with the food to the easterners, but thankfully that never happened.}
	{#a story of a caesar eventually realizing he can just do whatever he wants, and then just ordering everyone off a cliff to test if it works?



